One type of update that can happen to
a Blockchain results in what's known as a Hard Fork.
In this video, we'll go over what a Hard Fork is,
what effects it can have on a network,
and look at an example using Bitcoin cash.
A Hard Fork is a large change on the blockchain protocol.
It's a permanent change to the software that conflicts with
the existing version resulting in an entirely new software.
Once a Hard Fork is implemented,
it creates an entirely separate network.
Users will need to choose if they want to
stick with the current network or choose the new one.
This happens because of how the change occurs.
In a Hard Fork, software developers create
an exact copy of the entire Blockchain protocol.
They can do this because the codebase for most block chains are completely open source.
Once the developers make this copy,
they write their new code into the software.
Next, they need to decide when this change will take place.
The way they do this is by specifying a block number.
For example, you could say,
"Once we reach block 100 our changes will be implemented."
At this point, some nodes continue with
the original version and others transition to the alternative version.
They show their support of the version they chose
by adding blocks only to this new chain.
Since each block chain is now building a different history,
they're no longer compatible.
Even though they're now operating separately,
they still have a shared history from before the fork.
That means that all transactions that happened before the fork are valid on both chains.
This results in something pretty interesting.
Since you have a history of valid transactions,
they need to be represented on both chains.
To make this happen,
the coins you had on the original version are
duplicated and given to you on the new version.
So, if you had 100 coins on the original version before a Hard Fork,
you'll also have a 100 coins and whatever currency was created by the fork.
These coins are entirely separate from
the original coin and their values don't affect each other at all.
Some people call this free money,
but that's only the case if the new currency
ever gets accepted enough to gain any real value.
Hard Forks have happened on many different block chains already.
As an example, you may have heard of Bitcoin cash.
This currency was originally created because of
a disagreement on the block size of a Bitcoin block.
Some developers wanted to double
the current block size and others wanted to make it even larger.
When they couldn't come to an agreement,
some developers went with an increased size and other stayed with the current block size.
That's why we now have bitcoin and Bitcoin cash.
To recap, a Hard Fork is a major change to the protocol of a Blockchain.
It creates an entirely alternative software that is incompatible with the original.
This is different than a few other types of forks that we'll discuss next.